[[/img/sc_logo.png]]

[[/][Home]] [[/guides/][Guides]] [[/courses/][Courses]] [[/news/][News]]
[[/community/][Community]]
[[https://store.systemcrafters.net?utm_source=sc-site-nav][Store]]
[[/how-to-help/]]

Guides
  :PROPERTIES:
  :CUSTOM_ID: guides
  :CLASS: site-post-title
  :END:

<<content>>
** [[#complete-guides][¶]]Complete Guides
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: complete-guides
   :END:

<<text-org9537e22>>
/Comprehensive written guides are coming soon! Subscribe to the
[[../newsletter][System Crafters Newsletter]] to be notified when new
guides are released./

** [[#video-series][¶]]Video Series
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: video-series
   :END:

<<text-org1aacc36>>
I've create a number of video tutorial series to help you learn GNU
Emacs and GNU Guix in greater depth!

*** [[#gnu-emacs][¶]]GNU Emacs
    :PROPERTIES:
    :CUSTOM_ID: gnu-emacs
    :END:

**** [[#emacs-essentials][¶]]Emacs Essentials
     :PROPERTIES:
     :CUSTOM_ID: emacs-essentials
     :END:

<<text-org5d3a797>>
The [[../emacs-essentials/][Emacs Essentials]] series intends to teach
you everything you need to know about the built-in functionality of GNU
Emacs. Emacs beginners should start here, but seasoned Emacs users might
learn a few hidden gems too!

**** [[#emacs-from-scratch][¶]]Emacs From Scratch
     :PROPERTIES:
     :CUSTOM_ID: emacs-from-scratch
     :END:

<<text-org75c096b>>
The [[../emacs-from-scratch/][Emacs From Scratch]] series is for users
who know the basics and now want to create their own modern Emacs
configuration. I take you step by step through the process of building
up a fully custom configuration using many packages that are either
built-in or authored by the Emacs community.

**** [[#emacs-desktop-environment][¶]]Emacs Desktop Environment
     :PROPERTIES:
     :CUSTOM_ID: emacs-desktop-environment
     :END:

<<text-org543c1cb>>
The [[../emacs-desktop-environment/][Emacs Desktop Environment]] series
is a more advanced course where I show you how to build an entire
desktop environment with Emacs and EXWM on Linux. If you want to truly
“live” in Emacs, this is for you!

**** [[#learning-emacs-lisp][¶]]Learning Emacs Lisp
     :PROPERTIES:
     :CUSTOM_ID: learning-emacs-lisp
     :END:

<<text-org62803ec>>
In the [[../learning-emacs-lisp/][Learning Emacs Lisp]] series, I
explain the core customization language of Emacs called Emacs Lisp. We
start with the basics of the language and then embark on a project to
build an Emacs package from scratch!

**** [[#emacs-ide][¶]]Emacs IDE
     :PROPERTIES:
     :CUSTOM_ID: emacs-ide
     :END:

<<text-org57b3b18>>
Emacs can also be used as an IDE (integrated development environment)
like you might be used to from other editors. The [[../emacs-ide/][Emacs
IDE]] series will show you how to set up Emacs as an IDE to get rich
development functionality for many languages!

**** [[#emacs-mail][¶]]Emacs Mail
     :PROPERTIES:
     :CUSTOM_ID: emacs-mail
     :END:

<<text-orge95b9dc>>
Emacs can do many things, and this series will show you how you can use
it to manage your e-mail! The [[../emacs-mail/][Emacs Mail]] series
shows you how to use the mu4e package to build the most productive
e-mail workflow you've ever had.

**** [[#emacs-tips][¶]]Emacs Tips
     :PROPERTIES:
     :CUSTOM_ID: emacs-tips
     :END:

<<text-orgf73195f>>
There are many interesting topics we can cover about Emacs that don't
require their own dedicated series. The [[../emacs-tips/][Emacs Tips]]
series is a collection of videos that will cover many other packages and
configuration tricks we didn't get to in the other series!

**** [[#mastering-git-with-magit][¶]]Mastering Git with Magit
     :PROPERTIES:
     :CUSTOM_ID: mastering-git-with-magit
     :END:

<<text-org8be1c1e>>
The best interface for Git is in Emacs and it's called Magit! The
[[../mastering-git-with-magit/][Mastering Git with Magit]] series will
show you the ropes of how to use Magit to make all of your day to day
source control operations ninja fast!

**** [[#advanced-emacs-package-management][¶]]Advanced Emacs Package
Management
     :PROPERTIES:
     :CUSTOM_ID: advanced-emacs-package-management
     :END:

<<text-org01fbe72>>
The [[../advanced-package-management/][Advanced Emacs Package
Management]] will teach more about how to use package managers like
straight.el to manage Emacs packages in a more effective way!

**** [[#build-a-second-brain-in-emacs][¶]]Build a Second Brain in Emacs
     :PROPERTIES:
     :CUSTOM_ID: build-a-second-brain-in-emacs
     :END:

<<text-orgc41377d>>
Org Mode gives us the ability to organize our life in Emacs, but we can
go even further by building a personal knowledgebase in Emacs using
tools like Org Roam! The [[../build-a-second-brain-in-emacs/][Build a
Second Brain in Emacs]] series will show you how to build a personal
knowledge management and productivity workflow with these excellent
packages.

**** [[#publishing-websites-with-org-mode][¶]]Publishing Websites with
Org Mode
     :PROPERTIES:
     :CUSTOM_ID: publishing-websites-with-org-mode
     :END:

<<text-org39806a9>>
Org Mode has the ability to export to various other formats including
HTML. We can use that capability to publish website directly from Emacs
Org Mode. The [[../publishing-websites-with-org-mode/][Publishing
Websites with Org Mode]] series will show you how to build and publish a
website from Org Mode files using Emacs Lisp just like the one you're
reading right now!

**** [[#chatting-with-emacs][¶]]Chatting with Emacs
     :PROPERTIES:
     :CUSTOM_ID: chatting-with-emacs
     :END:

<<text-orgab8821f>>
Want to chat with the communities around various free and open source
projects from the comfort of Emacs? The
[[../chatting-with-emacs/][Chatting with Emacs]] series will teach you
how to do that!

*** [[#gnu-guix][¶]]GNU Guix
    :PROPERTIES:
    :CUSTOM_ID: gnu-guix
    :END:

**** [[#craft-your-system-with-gnu-guix][¶]]Craft Your System with GNU
Guix
     :PROPERTIES:
     :CUSTOM_ID: craft-your-system-with-gnu-guix
     :END:

<<text-orgd027cbc>>
GNU Guix is an amazing tool for managing not only the programs you use,
but also your entire system configuration. The
[[../craft-your-system-with-guix/][Craft Your System with GNU Guix]]
series will walk you through the process of learning and using Guix step
by step so that you can craft your own repeatable system configuration!

#+ATTR_HTML: :class list-form
#+BEGIN_center

Subscribe to the System Crafters Newsletter!

Stay up to date with the latest System Crafters news and updates! Read
the [[/newsletter/][Newsletter]] page for more information.

#+ATTR_HTML: :class row list-form-label
#+BEGIN_center
Name (optional)
#+END_center

#+ATTR_HTML: :class row list-form-label
#+BEGIN_center
Email Address
#+END_center

#+END_center

[[/privacy-policy/][Privacy Policy]] · [[/credits/][Credits]] ·
[[/rss/][RSS Feeds]] · [[https://fosstodon.org/@daviwil][Fediverse]]

© 2021-2024 · System Crafters LLC

[[https://codeberg.org/SystemCrafters/systemcrafters.net][[[/img/codeberg.png]]]]
